The Story:

Last Day of Summer

You are a young boy, Tolmy Cubbins, and you are going into town with a
basket of cranberries to sell to a greengrocer at the market.  It's
the last day of summer, i.e. the beginning of harvest.

You find the knife... somewhere.  You use it... somewhere.

In town, there's a rickety wooden chapel, next to a building site with
building stones lying around.  (It's going to be a new stone chapel to
replace the old wooden chapel, but that should not be obvious.)

Behind the wooden chapel is an overgrown garden, with a sundial, a
gravestone, and a small garden house.  Also the man with a hat is
sitting on a bench near the gravestone.  The man wants your knife, and
gives you his hat in return, then leaves.

A bird attacks your hair if you try to go into the garden house.
Wearing the hat makes the bird ignore you.

In the garden house is a desk with a locked drawer.  The sundial
gnomon is a key that unlocks the drawer.  In the drawer is a book
with a note inside.  The legend is on the note, in a different hand.
You can't really understand the book, but you can read the legend.

The preacher of the chapel died recently (or a few months ago-- enough
to let the garden get overgrown, or else he was sick for a while and
couldn't tend the garden).  He wrote the book in secret, but didn't
finish it.

The man says he's paying his respect to the preacher.


Theme/mood:

You're a young boy, and this is your first encounter with death, and
change.  The changing seasons is symbolic of the preacher's death,
which was inevitable, yet he was still unprepared, and didn't have
time to finish his work.  More generally, it's about time passing, and
life being too short.


Questions:

Where do you find the knife?

Where do you use the knife?

Why does the bird attack your hair?

Who wrote the note?

Why is the book important to you?

Why was the book important to the preacher?  Why did he write it in
secret?

How did the preacher die?  Unexpectedly, but was it an accident, or a
sudden illness (or an illness that suddenly got worse), or was it foul
play?

Why does the man know the preacher?  Maybe he had been planning to
visit, but was too late?  (Ironic, if the man is a time traveler...)

Why can't you just sell the cranberries and go home?

Did you know the preacher?  Did you know he was dead?

Why can't you go anywhere else in town?

Who is taking the preacher's place?  Who's funding the building of the
new stone chapel?




Ideas:


First, you come to a river, but the bridge was washed out by a recent
storm.  Down the river a ways you find a boat tied to a tree, but the
rope is all gummed up with mud and you can't untie the knot.  If you
look into the river (or try to drink from it), you find a rusty knife,
but it's good enough to cut the rope, letting you ride the boat across
the river.

Hm, not that interesting a puzzle...  Why would you think of looking
in the water?  (Should be clued, e.g. you start getting thirsty.)
Maybe you just find the knife somewhere on the way to town and the
cutting happens somewhere else?



The greengrocer was friends with the preacher, who sold stuff from his
garden to the greengrocer.  He knew about the book?  Perhaps they were
complicit in some misdeed, and the greengrocer wants the book, maybe to
get rid of it?

Or, the greengrocer killed the preacher, and the book incriminates
him?

Or, they were in some noble but secret society together, and the
greengrocer wants some artifact that belongs to the society.

